MODEL AI GOVERNANCE 
FRAMEWORK FOR AGENTIC AI 
 
 
 
Version 1.5 | Published 20 May 2026 
(Updated 5 June 2026) 

 
 
 
 
 
Contents 
 
Executive Summary 
................................
 ................................
 ................................
 ........... 
3 
What's new in this version 
................................
 ................................
 ................................
 .. 
5 
1 
 Introduction to Agentic AI 
................................
 ................................
 ............................ 
6 
1.1 What is Agentic AI? ................................ ................................ ............................. 6 
1.1.1 Core components of an agent ................................................................................... 6 
1.1.2 Multi-agent setups .................................................................................................... 8 
1.1.3 How agent design affects the limits and capabilities of each agent ............................. 8 
1.2 Risks of Agentic AI................................ ................................ .............................. 10 
1.2.1 Sources of risk ........................................................................................................ 10 
1.2.2 Types of risk ........................................................................................................... 11 
1.2.3 Systemic and multi-agent risks................................................................................ 11 
2 
 Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
................................
 ........................... 
13 
2.1 Assess and bound the risks upfront ................................ ................................ ..... 15 
2.1.1 Determine suitable use cases for agent deployment ................................................ 15 
2.1.2 Bound risks through design by defining agents limits and permissions ...................... 19 
2.2 Make humans meaningfully accountable ................................ ............................ 25 
2.2.1 Clear allocation of responsibilities within and outside the organisation .................... 25 
2.2.2 Design for meaningful human oversight ................................................................... 29 
2.3 Implement technical controls and processes ................................ ...................... 33 
2.3.1 During design and development, use technical controls ........................................... 33 
2.3.2 Before deploying, test agents .................................................................................. 38 
2.3.3 When deploying, continuously monitor and test ....................................................... 42 
2.4 Enable end-user responsibility ................................ ................................ ........... 46 
2.4.1 Different users, different needs ............................................................................... 46 
2.4.2 Users who interact with agents ................................................................................ 46 
2.4.3 Users who integrate agents into their work processes .............................................. 47 
Annex A: Further resources 
................................
 ................................
 .............................. 
50 
Annex B: Call for feedback and case studies 
................................
 ................................
 ...... 
52 
Acknowledgements 
................................
 ................................
 ................................
 ......... 
53 
 
 

 
 
 
 Executive Summary 
 
Agentic AI is the next evolution of AI, holding 
transformative potential for users and 
businesses. Compared to generative AI, AI agents 
can take actions, adapt to new information, and 
interact with other agents and systems to 
complete tasks on behalf of humans. While use 
cases are rapidly evolving, agents are already 
transforming the workplace through coding 
assistants, customer service agents, and 
automating enterprise productivity workflows. 
 
These greater capabilities also bring forth new 
risks. Agents' access to sensitive data and ability 
to make changes to their environment, such as 
updating a customer database or making a 
payment, are double-edged swords. As we move 
towards deploying multiple agents with complex 
interactions, outcomes also become more 
unpredictable. 
 
Humans must remain accountable and properly 
manage these risks. While existing governance 
principles for trusted AI such as transparency, 
accountability and fairness continue to apply, 
they need to be translated in practice for agents. 
Additionally, meaningful human control and 
oversight need to be integrated into the agentic AI 
lifecycle. Nevertheless, a balance needs to be 
struck as continuous human oversight over all 
agent workflows becomes impractical at scale. 
 
The Model AI Governance Framework (MGF) for 
Agentic AI gives organisations a structured 
overview of the risks of agentic AI and emerging 
best practices in managing these risks. If risks 
are properly managed, organisations can adopt 
agentic AI with greater confidence. The MGF is 
targeted at organisations looking to deploy agentic 
AI, whether by developing AI agents in-house or 
using third-party agentic solutions. 
 
Building on our previous model governance 
frameworks, we have outlined key considerations 
for organisations in four areas for agentic AI: 
 
 
1. Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
Organisations should adapt their internal 
structures and processes to account for new 
risks from agents. Key to this is first 
understanding the risks posed by the agent's 
actions, which depend on factors such as the 
scope of actions the agent can take, the 
reversibility of those actions, and the agent's 
level of autonomy. 
 
To manage these risks early, organisations 
could limit their agents' scope of impact by 
designing appropriate boundaries at the 
planning stage, such as limiting access to 
tools and external systems. They could also 
ensure that the agent's actions are traceable 
and controllable through measures such as 
identity management and access controls for 
agents. 
 
2. Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
Once the "green light" is given for agentic AI 
deployment, an organisation should take 
steps to ensure human accountability. 
 
However, the autonomy of agents may 
complicate traditional responsibility 
assignments which are tied to static 
workflows. Multiple actors may also be 
involved in different parts of the agent 
lifecycle, diffusing accountability. It is 
therefore important to clearly define the 
responsibilities of different stakeholders, both 
within the organisation and with external 
vendors, while emphasising adaptive 
governance, so that the organisation is set up 
to quickly understand new developments and 
update its approach as the technology 
evolves. 
 
Specifically, "human-in-the-loop" has to be 
adapted to address automation bias, which 
has become a bigger concern with 
increasingly capable agents. This includes 

 
 
 
defining significant checkpoints in the agentic 
workflow that require human approval, such 
as high-stakes or irreversible actions, and 
regularly auditing human oversight to check 
that it remains effective over time. 
 
3. Implement technical controls and 
processes 
 
Organisations should ensure the safe and 
reliable operationalisation of AI agents by 
implementing technical measures across the 
agent lifecycle. 
 
During development, organisations should 
incorporate technical controls for new 
agentic components such as planning, tools 
and still-maturing protocols, to address 
increased risks from these new attack 
surfaces. 
 
Before deployment, organisations should test 
agents for baseline safety and reliability, 
including new dimensions such as overall 
execution accuracy, policy adherence, and 
tool use. New testing approaches will be 
needed to evaluate agents. 
 
During and after deployment, as agents 
interact dynamically with their environment 
and not all risks can be anticipated upfront, it 
is recommended to gradually roll out agents 
alongside continuous monitoring after 
deployment. 
 
4. Enable end-user responsibility 
 
Trustworthy deployment of agents does not 
rely solely on developers, but also on endusers using them responsibly. To enable 
responsible use, as a baseline, users should 
be informed of the agent's range of actions, 
access to data, and the user's own 
responsibilities. Organisations should 
consider layering on training to equip 
employees with the knowledge required to 
manage human-agent interactions and 
exercise effective oversight, while maintaining 
their tradecraft and foundational skills. 
 
This is a living document. We have worked with 
government agencies and leading companies to 
collate current best practices and contribute realworld case studies, but this is a fast-developing 
space. This framework will need to be 
continuously updated to keep pace with new 
developments. We invite feedback to refine the 
framework, and more case studies demonstrating 
how the framework can be applied for responsible 
agentic deployment. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
What's new in this version 
 
This version incorporates feedback received from 60+ companies since v1.0. The main changes include: 
 
Introduction to Agentic AI 
What is Agentic 
AI? 
• Agentic components: Added safety and reliability components (controls, 
logging and monitoring) as part of agent's core components 
• Protocols: Updated for newer protocols, especially for agentic commerce 
Risks of Agentic AI • Systemic and multi-agent risks: Added systemic and multi-agent risks 
 
Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
The four 
dimensions 
• Case study from IMDA on how the framework can be applied to OpenClaw 
deployments 
Assess and bound 
the risks 
• Risk factors: Added new factors for risk assessment, including system 
complexity and usage of third-party solutions 
• Case studies from Dayos, MSD, OCBC 
Enable meaningful 
human 
accountability 
• Agentic value chain: Refined the agentic AI value chain to separate platform 
providers and system providers or app developers 
• Automation bias: Added more practices to guard against automation bias, 
such as monitoring human override rates and response times 
• Case studies from PwC, Tencent, X0PA 
Implement 
technical controls 
and processes 
• Types of controls: Added overview of different types of controls and how to 
select them (e.g. structural, rule-based vs prompt-layer controls) 
• Change management: Included recommendations for change management 
processes to avoid outsized impact from small changes, especially as 
system complexity increases 
• Case studies from CDL x Knovel, CyberSierra, Google, GovTech, Stability 
Solutions, Terminal 3 
Enable end-user 
responsibility 
• Tradecraft and business continuity: Added detail on loss of tradecraft and 
how it can impact business continuity 
• Case studies from Ant International, Workday 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Introduction to Agentic AI 
6 
1 Introduction to Agentic AI 
 
1.1 What is Agentic AI? 
 
There is no consensus on what defines an AI agent, but there are certain common features - agents 
usually possess some degree of independent planning , decision -making, and action -taking (e.g. 
searching the web or creating files) over multiple steps to achieve a user -defined goal .1 Agentic AI 
systems are software systems consisting of one or multiple AI agents that may operate individually or 
collaboratively. 
 
In this framework, we focus on agents built on generative AI models, which are increasingly being adopted. 
Generally, such agents use a small, large, or multimodal large language model (SLM, LLM, or MLLM) as its 
brain to make decisions and complete tasks. However, it is worth noting that software agents are not a new 
concept and other types of agents exist, such as those w hich use deterministic rules, or other neural 
networks, to make decisions.2 
 
1.1.1 Core components of an agent 
 
 
Core components of a simple agent3 
 
As agents are built on top of language models, it is helpful to start with the core components of a 
simple LLM-based app, which an agent uses in similar ways. 
 
 
1 Adapted from the International AI Safety Report. 
2 See World Economic Forum (WEF), AI Agents in Action: Foundations for Evaluation and Governance . 
3 Adapted from GovTech Singapore, Agentic Risk & Capability Framework, CSA Singapore, Draft Addendum on 
Securing Agentic AI and Anthropic, Building Effective Agents). 
Controls (Access controls, guardrails, human approvals) 
Guide decisions 
and actions 
Retrieve and store 
info for long-term 
Interact with 
external systems 
Model 
 
 
Planning & 
Reasoning 
Instructions 
 Tools 
Memory 
1
v 
2
v 
3
v 
5
v 
4
v 
Logging and monitoring 
7
v 
8
v 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Introduction to Agentic AI 
7 
1. Model: an SLM, LLM or MLLM that serves as the central reasoning and planning engine, or the "brain" 
of the agent. It processes instructions, interprets user inputs, and generates contextually 
appropriate responses. 
 
2. Instructions: Natural language commands that define an agent's role, capabilities, and behavioural 
constraints e.g. a system prompt for an LLM. 
 
3. Memory: Information that is stored and accessible to the LLM, either in short or long-term storage. 
Sometimes added to allow the model to obtain information from previous user interactions or 
external knowledge sources. 
 
In addition, an agent has other components that enable it to complete more complex tasks: 
 
4. Planning and reasoning: The model is usually trained to reason and plan, meaning that it can output 
a series of steps needed for a task. 
 
5. Tools: Tools enable the agent to take actions and interact with other systems, such as writing to 
files and databases, controlling devices, or performing transactions. The model calls tools to 
complete a task. Agents themselves can also be called as tools, e.g. one supervisor agent invokes 
another specialist agent for a certain task. 
 
6. Protocols: Standardised ways for agents to communicate with tools and other agents. For example, 
the Model Context Protocol (MCP) has been developed for agents to communicate with tools, 
whereas the Agent2Agent Protocol (A2A) defines a standard for agents to communicate with each 
other.4 This is a fast -developing space and more protocols are being developed to standardise 
agent interactions, especially in agentic commerce.5 
 
Apart from these enabling components, an agent usually also has components for safe and reliable 
performance:6 
 
7. Controls: Controls limit the agent's action -space and autonomy. While there are many types of 
controls, the ones most relevant to agents are: 
a. Access controls: These limit what an agent is allowed to see, use or change, including 
restricting access to sensitive data, tools and systems. 
b. Guardrails: Guardrails monitor and constrain an agent's behaviour before, during or after it 
acts. It can help detect unsafe instructions, policy violations, or actions that appear 
inconsistent with user intent. 
c. Human approvals: Requirements for a human to review or approve agent actions. 
 
8. 
 Log
 ging 
and monitoring
 : 
R
ecords agent actions, decisions, and interactions across all 
components to enable monitoring, debugging, and accountability. 
 
4 See Anthropic, Model Context Protocol and Google, Agent2Agent Protocol. 
5 See OpenAI, Agentic Commerce Protocol, Alipay, Agentic Mobile Protocol, and Google, Universal Commerce 
Protocol. 
6 More information on this can be found in 2.3 Implement technical controls and processes. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Introduction to Agentic AI 
8 
1.1.2 Multi-agent setups 
 
In an agentic system, it is common for multiple agents to be set up to work together. This allows each 
agent to specialise in a certain function or ta sk and/or work in parallel. Having multiple agents specialising 
in different tasks also means that each agent's tools and permissions can be separately scoped and defined, 
compared to a single agent with access to many tools. 
 
Three simple design patterns for multi-agent systems are:7 
 
• Sequential: Agents work one after another in a linear or otherwise structured workflow e.g. a graph. 
Each agent's output becomes the next agent's input. 
• Supervisor: One supervising agent coordinates specialised agents under it, calling specific agents 
as tools when required. 
• Swarm: Agents work at the same time, handing off to another agent when needed. 
 
There is no universally correct architecture for a multi-agent setup, and the task at hand can require different 
or hybrid patterns . 8 A well-defined task with a step -by-step workflow can lend itself to a sequential 
architecture, whereas a more open -ended task that requires brainstorming or pursuing different lines of 
inquiry may benefit from a swarm architecture. 
 
1.1.3 How agent design affects the limits and capabilities of each agent 
 
While each agent may have the same core components, the design of each component can 
significantly affect what the agent can do. 
 
It is generally helpful to distinguish between two concepts when considering what an agent can do:9 
 
 
 
 
7 Adapted from AWS , Multi-Agent Collaboration Patterns with Strands Agents and Amazon Nova . See also 
Claude, Building multi-agent systems: When and how to use them. 
8 For examples, see AWS, Inside AWS Security Agent: A multi -agent architecture for automated penetration 
testing, Langchain, Choosing the Right Multi-Agent Architecture. 
9 See WEF, AI Agents in Action: Foundations for Evaluation and Governance . 
Action-space 
(or authority, capabilities) 
 
Range of actions the agent can take, 
including transactions it can execute, 
determined by the tools it is allowed to use 
and permissions on those tools 
Autonomy 
(or decision-making) 
 
Degree to which an agent can decide how to act 
towards a goal, such as by defining the steps to 
be taken, determined by its instructions and 
level of human involvement 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Introduction to Agentic AI 
9 
Action
 -
 space 
 
An agent's action-space mainly depends on the tools it has access to, which can affect: 
 
• Systems it can access: 
o Sandboxes only: Sandboxed tools (e.g. for code execution, data analysis) that cannot affect 
any other system 
o Internal systems : Tools internal to the organisation, such as being able to search and 
update the organisation's databases 
o External systems : Tools that enable the agent to access external services, such as 
retrieving and updating data through third-party pre-defined APIs. 
 
• Actions it can take in relation to the system it can access: 
o Read vs write: An agent may only be able to read and retrieve information from a system, 
rather than write to and modify data within the system. 
 
An emerging modality of agentic AI is a computer use agent, whose primary tool is access to a computer 
and browser. This means that it can take any action that a human can take with a computer and browser 
(e.g. scrolling, clicking, typing) without having to rely on specifically defined tools and APIs. This significantly 
increases what the agent can access and do.10 
 
Autonomy 
 
An agent's autonomy mainly depends on its instructions and the level of human involvement in the 
agentic system. In enterprise deployments, most agentic implementations are hybrid systems combining 
deterministic rules with some autonomy. 
 
In terms of instructions, an agent can be given differing level of instructions: 
 
• Detailed instructions and SOP: An agent instructed to follow a detailed SOP to complete a task 
would be limited in the decisions it can make at each stage. 
• Using its own judgment: An agent instructed to use its own judgment to complete a task would 
have more freedom to define its plan and workflow. 
 
Another relevant factor is the level of human involvement. When interacting with an agent, a human can be 
involved to different levels:11 
 
• Agent proposes, human operates: The human reviews and approves every agent action. 
• Agent and human collaborate: The human and agent work together. The agent requires human 
approval at significant steps, such as before writing to a database or making a payment. However, 
the human can intervene anytime by taking over the agent's work or pausing the agent and 
requesting a change. 
• Agent operates, human approves: The agent requires human approval only at critical steps or 
failures, such as deleting a database or making a payment above a predefined amount. 
 
10 For more information on testing computer use agents, see the case study Google x Singapore Government: 
Testing computer use agents below. 
11 See Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, Levels of Autonomy for AI Agents. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Introduction to Agentic AI 
10 
• Agent operates, human observes: The agent does not require human approval as it completes its 
task, though its actions may be audited after the fact. 
 
 
 
Illustration of differing action-spaces and autonomy for a software engineering agent 
 
1.2 Risks of Agentic AI 
 
1.2.1 Sources of risk 
 
The new components of an agent constitute new sources of risks.12 The risks themselves are familiar 
- fundamentally, agents are software systems built on LLMs. They inherit traditional software vulnerabilities 
(such as SQL injection) and LLM -specific risks (such as hallucination, bias, data leakage and adversarial 
prompt injections).13 
 
However, the risks can manifest differently through the different components. For example: 
 
• Planning and reasoning: An agent can, due to hallucination or semantic misalignment (incorrect 
interpretation of the user's intent ), create a plan that cannot achieve the requested task , or that 
contradicts the user's intent, or drifts from an earlier plan. 
 
• Tools: An agent can hallucinate and call non-existent tools, make errors by calling the wrong tools, 
calling the right tools with the wrong input , or call tools in a biased manner. As tools connect the 
agent to external systems, prompt or code injections can also manipulate the agent to exfiltrate or 
otherwise manipulate the data it has access to. 
 
• Protocols: As new protocols emerge to handle agent communication, they can be poorly deployed 
or compromised e.g. deploying an untrusted MCP server that contains code to exfiltrate the user's 
data. 
 
 
12 See BCG, What Happens When AI Stops Asking Permission? 
13 Adapted from CSA, Draft Addendum on Securing Agentic AI. 
Smaller action-space 
 Larger action-space 
Less 
autonomy 
More 
autonomy 
Agent can access file directory 
listings but needs approval to 
read specific files, cannot write 
to files or access the web 
Agent can search and read any 
file to diagnose issues, but has 
no write access, and cannot 
access external systems 
Agent can independently browse 
the web, write code, run tests, 
and deploy features and fixes 
Agent can browse web, read and 
modify files, but only with human 
approval at each step and/or 
according to a fixed SOP 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Introduction to Agentic AI 
11 
1.2.2 Types of risk 
 
 
 
 
 
Because agents take actions in the real world, when they malfunction, it can lead to harmful real -
world impact. Organisations should be aware of these negative outcomes: 
 
• Erroneous actions: Incorrect actions such as an agent fixing appointments on the wrong date or 
producing flawed code. The exact harmful outcome depends on the action in question, e.g. flawed 
code can lead to exploited security vulnerabilities, and wrong medical appointments may affect a 
patient's health outcomes. 
 
• Unauthorised actions: Actions taken by the agent outside its permitted scope or authority, such as 
taking an action without escalating it for human approval based on explicit human instruction, a 
company policy, or standard operating procedures. 
 
• Biased or unfair actions: Biased or unfair output is a known problem for LLMs and can translate to 
biased actions in agents. These are actions that lead to unfair outcomes, especially when dealing 
with groups of different profiles and demographics e.g. biased vendor selection in procurement, 
disbursements of grants, and/or hiring decisions. 
 
• Data breaches: Actions that lead to the exposure or manipulation of sensitive data. Such data may 
be personally identifiable or confidential information e.g. customer details, trade secrets, and/or 
internal communications. This can be due to a security breach, where attackers exploit agents to 
reveal private information, or an agent disclosing sensitive data due to a failure to recognise it as 
sensitive. While this is also a known risk for LLMs, agents generally have greater access to data, and 
can not only leak but also wrongly modify data. 
 
• Disruption to connected systems : As agents interact with other systems, they can cause 
disruption to connected systems when they are compromised or malfunction e.g. deleting a 
production codebase, or overwhelming external systems with requests. 
 
1.2.3 Systemic and multi-agent risks 
 
The speed and complexity of agentic systems can increase the risks above. In particular: 
 
• Speed and volume: The speed at which agents take decisions make it difficult for oversight 
mechanisms to detect and prevent unauthorised actions in real -time before they cause harm. 
Requiring human approvers to continuously oversee agents as a safeguard can also lead to 
automation bias and alert fatigue. 
 
Erroneous actions Unauthorised 
actions 
Biased or unfair 
actions 
Data breaches Disruption to 
connected systems 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Introduction to Agentic AI 
12 
• Cascading or compounding effects: A mistake in one step can propagate and amplify across later 
steps, resulting in outsized impact . For example, in supply chain management, a n initial 
hallucinated inventory figure could potentially cause downstream actions to reorder excessive or 
insufficient stock. 
 
Multi-agent systems exacerbate these risks because of the increase in number of interacting agents . 
For example, multi-agent systems often require agents to share context, memory, and intermediate outputs 
with other agents. This increases the likelihood for sensitive data to be unintentionally logged, passed to 
less secure agents, or exposed through prompt injection attacks. 
 
The extent to which multi -agent systems introduce qualitatively different risks is still being studied , 
but some of the more pertinent ones include:14 
 
• Agent sprawl: As more AI agents are created and deployed within the organisation, this can lead to 
the uncontrolled proliferation of AI agents without centralised management. This can lead to issues 
with provenance, incompatibility between old and new agents, and /or difficulties in managing 
agents from different generations that may not communicate well. 
 
• Collaborative failures 
o Miscoordination: Agents working together can lead to unintended failures through bad 
communication or miscoordination. For example, agents working on the same task may 
interpret the user's intent differently, and work towards different goals. 
o Conflict: Agents optimising different goals can come into conflict. For example, a customer 
support agent may offer refunds to resolve complaints quickly, while a revenue protection 
agent may block refunds above a certain threshold. 
o Collusion: Agents may develop behaviours that appear coordinated, even if no explicit 
instruction to collude was given. For example, pricing agents used by different 
organisations could observe each other's prices and converge on higher prices rather than 
competing. This behaviour has already been studied for pricing algorithms 15 and is being 
studied for LLM-based agents. 
 
• Unpredictability and other emergent behaviours: When multiple non-deterministic agents work 
together, the number of possible outcomes grows exponentially . This can cause emergent 
behaviours that cannot be predicted from testing each agent individually. 
 
Finally, multiple agents can interact both within a system or across systems. When agents cross 
system or organisational boundaries, it becomes more difficult to test for and anticipate the spectrum of 
potential outcomes, especially if an organisation does not have white-box access to these external systems. 
 
 
14 See Gradient Institute, Risk Analysis Techniques for Governed LLM-based Multi-Agent Systems. 
15 See Bichler, Durmann, & Oberlechner, Algorithmic Pricing and Algorithmic Collusion. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
The four dimensions 
 
13 
2 Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 
 
 
Four dimensions of the MGF for Agentic AI 
 
The MGF for Agentic AI builds on the responsible AI practices for organisations set out in MGF (2020) 16 by 
highlighting emerging best practices to address new concerns from agentic AI. This is so that organisations 
can develop and use agentic AI with the requisite knowledge and judgment. 
 
The framework begins with helping organisations to assess and bound the risks upfront. It highlights new 
risks that should be considered during risk assessment, and design considerations at the planning stage to 
limit the potential scope of impact of the agents, as well as ensure that agents are traceable and 
controllable. 
 
While agents may act autonomously, human responsibility continues to apply. Once the "green light" is 
given to deploy agentic AI, an organisation should take immediate steps to make humans meaningfully 
accountable. This includes clearly defining responsibility across multiple actors within and outside the 
organisation involved in the agent lifecycle; and taking measures to ensure that human-in-the-loop remains 
effective over time notwithstanding automation bias. 
 
To ensure safe and reliable operationalisation of agents, an organisation should adopt technical controls 
and processes across the AI lifecycle. During development, guardrails for new components in AI agents 
such as planning and tools should be implemented. Before deployment, agents should be tested for 
baseline safety and reliability. After deployment, agents should be continuously monitored as they interact 
dynamically with their environment. 
 
Finally, trustworthy deployment of agents does not rest solely on developers, but also on end -users. 
Organisations are responsible for enabling end -user responsibility by equipping them with essential 
information to use agents appropriately and exercise effective oversight, while maintaining their tradecraft 
and foundational skills. 
 
These four dimensions should be viewed as an iterative process. For example, if an anomaly is detected 
during implementation or monitoring, organisations should re-evaluate the earlier dimensions, re-assessing 
and further bounding the risks if needed. This ensures continuous improvement and adaptation as new 
insights emerge from deployment experience. 
 
 
16 See Model AI Governance Framework (2 nd Ed). 
1. Assess and bound 
the risks upfront 
2. Make humans 
meaningfully accountable 
3. Implement technical 
controls and processes 
4. Enable end
 -
 user 
responsibility 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
The four dimensions 
 
14 
 
IMDA: Applying the four dimensions of the framework to OpenClaw 
 
In May 2026, IMDA released a case study on responsible deployment of OpenClaw, applying this 
framework and drawing from the practical experiences of GovTech, CSA, and industry players such as 
Grab and Microsoft who had experimented with it. 
 
OpenClaw is an open-source AI agent platform that acts as an autonomous personal assistant through 
common chat interfaces such as Telegram and Slack. It can automate everyday tasks such as compiling 
research, handling customer enquiries or debugging code. It was launched with limited security controls 
and deploying it safely is non-trivial. Concerns include its lack of maturity and hardening, access control 
and authentication gaps, exposure of sensitive data, supply chain risks from third -party skills, and 
memory poisoning risks. 
 
The framework can be applied to deploy OpenClaw (and similar) agents responsibly: 
 
1. Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
• Avoid deploying OpenClaw as -is in mission-critical environments, including systems that 
handle sensitive data or financial transactions 
• Avoid creating a single "all-powerful" agent with unrestricted access, instead use multiple 
agents with narrow, clearly defined rules 
• Avoid installing OpenClaw on primary work or personal devices containing sensitive data , 
and granting it unrestricted access to files and applications 
 
2. Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
• Adopt a risk-based approach to determine the appropriate level of agent autonomy based 
on data sensitivity and task criticality 
• Enforce human approval through system -level controls where possible, vs prompt -layer 
guardrails, which may be bypassed or "forgotten" 
 
3. Implement technical controls and processes 
 
• During design and development, review and tighten OpenClaw configurations which are 
permissive by default e.g. restrict messaging channel access, using dedicated identities 
and credentials for the agent 
• Before deployment, test and verify that safety controls and human -in-the-loop is working 
as intended e.g. attempt disallowed actions to ensure restrictions work 
• After deployment, ensure all agent actions are logged and attributable, and avoid leaving 
the agent unsupervised for extended periods 
 
4. Enable end-user responsibility 
 
• Provide personnel training to improve employees' awareness of autonomous agent risks 
and reinforce their responsibility to prevent careless misuse 
 
See the full case study here. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
15 
2.1 Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
Agents bring new risks, especially in their access to sensitive data and ability to change their environment 
through action-taking. Their adaptive, autonomous and multi -step nature also increases the potential for 
unexpected actions, emergent risks and cas cading impacts. Organisations should consider these new 
dimensions through: 
 
• Determining suitable use cases for agent deployment by considering agent-specific factors that 
can affect the likelihood and impact of the risk. 
• Design choices to bound the risks upfront by applying limits on agent's access to tools and 
systems and defining a robust identity and permissions framework. 
 
2.1.1 Determine suitable use cases for agent deployment 
 
When considering if an agentic use case is suitable for development or deployment , first identify and 
assess the risk against the benefits. Risk is a function of likelihood (probability of the risk manifesting) and 
impact (severity of impact if the risk manifests). Not all use cases are suitable for agents, and some may be 
better served by deterministic workflows. 
 
The following non-exhaustive factors affect the level of risk of an agentic use case: 
 
Factors affecting impact (severity of impact if the risk manifests) 
Factor Description Illustration 
Domain and use 
case in which 
agent is being 
deployed 
Level of tolerance of error in the domain and 
use case in which the agent is being deployed. 
 
Also consider the number and criticality of 
business processes the agent supports, which 
affects the impact of agent failure. 
Agent executing financial 
transactions which require a 
high degree of accuracy would 
have a larger negative impact if 
an error were made, vs agent 
that summarises internal 
meetings 
Agent's access 
to sensitive data 
Whether the agent can access sensitive data, 
such as personal information or confidential 
data. 
 
If agent has such access, the risk increases if 
the agent has persistent memory and can store 
sensitive data across sessions. 
Agent that requires access to 
personal customer data gives 
rise to the risk of leaking such 
data, vs agent who only has 
access to publicly available 
information 
Agent's access 
to external 
systems 
Whether the agent can access external 
systems. 
Agent that sends data to thirdparty APIs can leak data to these 
third parties, or disrupt these 
systems by making too many 
requests, vs agent that only has 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
16 
access to sandboxed or internal 
tools 
Scope of agent's 
actions 
Whether an agent can only read from or can 
also modify the data and systems it has access 
to. 
 
Whether the agent can complete a small or 
wide range of actions using tools available to it. 
Read vs write: Agent that can 
only read from a database 
cannot impact the database, vs 
agent that can write to it 
 
Many actions vs a few: Agent 
that can only choose from a few 
pre-defined tools, vs one who 
has access to a computer use 
tool that can navigate any user 
interface 
Reversibility of 
agent's actions 
If the agent can modify data and systems, 
whether such modifications are easily 
reversed. Modifications may not be easily 
reversed if they trigger downstream obligations 
e.g. entering into a contract or sale. 
Agent that schedules meetings 
can easily reschedule them if an 
error is made, vs agent that 
sends email communications to 
external parties 
 
Factors affecting likelihood (probability of the risk manifesting) 
Factor Description Illustration 
Agent's level of 
autonomy 
Whether the agent can define the entire 
workflow or must follow a well-defined 
procedure. 
 
A higher level of autonomy can result in higher 
unpredictability, increasing likelihood of error. 
Agent is provided with a SOP 
and instructed to follow it when 
carrying out a task, vs agent is 
instructed to use its best 
judgment to select and execute 
every step 
Task complexity How complex the task is, in relation to the 
number of steps required to complete it and 
the level of analysis required at each step. 
 
A higher level of task complexity similarly 
increases unpredictability and the likelihood of 
error. 
Agent is required to extract key 
action points from a meeting 
transcript, vs agent is tasked to 
follow a nuanced data sharing 
policy when handling external 
requests for information 
Agent's access 
to external 
systems 
Whether the agent is exposed to external 
systems, and who maintains these systems. 
 
A higher level of exposure makes the agent 
more vulnerable to prompt injections and 
cyberattacks. 
 
Agent who can only access an 
internal knowledge base which 
is maintained by trusted internal 
teams, vs an agent who can 
access the web containing 
untrusted data 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
17 
Agent being 
provided or 
operated by an 
external party 
Whether the organisation is using agents 
provided or operated by external parties. 
 
When using third-party solutions, organisations 
should consider to what extent their visibility 
and control over the agent is limited. 
Agent developed and maintained 
internally with full visibility vs 
agent provided by third-party 
vendor with limited transparency 
into its operations and data 
processing 
System 
complexity 
How complex the agentic system is, e.g. using 
multiple agents with autonomous decisionmaking, feedback loops. 
 
A system can also become complex due to a 
combination of different factors above (e.g. 
complex tasks with greater autonomy). A 
higher level of system complexity can result in 
more unpredictable and emergent behaviour as 
components interact in unexpected ways, 
compounding any negative effects. 
A single agent carrying out a 
sequential workflow vs multiple 
agents which can interact with 
each other, make decisions 
collectively, or autonomously 
handoff to other agents 
 
 
Threat modelling also makes risk assessment 
more rigorous by systematically identifying 
specific ways in which an attacker may take to 
compromise the system. Common security 
threats to agentic systems include memory 
poisoning, tool misuse, and privilege 
compromise. 17 As agentic systems can become 
very complex, it is often useful to use a method 
called taint tracing to map out all the workflows 
and interactions to track how untrusted data can 
move through the system. For more information on 
how to perform threat modell ing and taint tracing 
for agentic systems, organisations may refer to 
CSA's Draft Addendum on Securing Agentic AI. 
 
 
17 For a more comprehensive coverage of potential security threats to agentic AI systems, see OWASP, Agentic 
AI - Threats and Mitigations. 
The relationship between threat modelling and 
risk assessment 
 
Threat modelling augments the risk assessment 
process by generating contextualised threat events 
with well-described sequence of actions, activities 
and scenarios that the attacker may take to 
compromise the system. With more relevant threat 
events, risk assessments will be more rigorous and 
robust, resulting in more targeted controls and 
effective layered defence. Since risk assessment is 
continuous, the threat model should be regularly 
updated. 
 
Adapted from CSA, Guide to Cyber Threat 
Modelling 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
18 
 
Dayos: Tiering and bounding agentic actions by risk level in IT management 
 
Dayos is an enterprise AI automation company headquartered in Singapore with operations in the US. 
The company builds Hero, an agentic platform that sits on top of Oracle, SAP, Workday, NetSuite and 
Microsoft Dynamics and automates workflows across IT management, accounting, HR and 
procurement. 
 
Dayos replaced its own ServiceNow instance with an AI-powered ticketing agent built on Hero. The full 
retirement took 45 days and reduced legacy licensing costs by $121,000 annually. The agent now 
handles every internal IT request that comes in: it reads the ticket, determines how urgent and complex 
it is, and either resolves it automatically or routes it to a human. 
 
Before any of this went live, Dayos ran a structured risk assessment. Every type of IT ticket was scored 
against three questions: 
• Severity of impact: If the agent gets this wrong, how bad is it? 
• Reversibility: Can the action be undone? 
• Feasibility of human oversight: Is it realistic for a human to review this at each step? 
 
The scores determined which tier each ticket type falls into, and that tier dictated what reasoning 
strategy the agent uses and how much autonomy the agent gets. 
 
Tier 
 What falls here 
 What the agent does (and does not do) 
Tier 1 (60% 
of tickets) 
 
Low severity, 
fully 
reversible 
 
Password resets, 
access requests, 
status inquiries 
• Fully automated by agent using Simple Feedback (a 
propose-confirm loop). The agent proposes, the user 
confirms or pushes back, and agent adjusts until the ticket 
is closed. No human engineer is in the loop. 
• But with biweekly audits: Every action produces a 
reasoning chain that captures classification logic and a 
confidence score. A designated reviewer audits a crosssection of these biweekly. As every Tier 1 action is 
reversible, errors can be corrected without any lasting 
damage. 
Tier 2 (30% 
of tickets) 
 
Moderate 
severity, 
partially 
reversible 
Chart of accounts 
updates, 
integration 
mapping 
corrections, 
diagnosing failed 
API connections 
• Agent diagnoses but can only act with a human 
engineer's approval. Uses the ReACT strategy (a multistep diagnostic loop for harder problems): the agent 
checks logs, queries connected systems, identifies the 
probable root cause, and writes up a diagnostic summary 
with a proposed fix. But a qualified engineer has to review 
and sign off before anything executes. 
Tier 3 (10% 
of tickets) 
 
High severity, 
limited 
reversibility 
Production 
deployments, 
security changes, 
permission 
modifications 
• Agent does not touch these. Production deployments and 
security changes carry too much risk for autonomous 
execution at the current maturity of agentic AI. As 
safeguards improve and are validated in real environments 
- e.g. multi-agent verification and real-time anomaly 
detection - Dayos will reassess whether bounded 
automation makes sense for specific Tier 3 actions. 
 
 
 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
19 
2.1.2 Bound risks through design by defining agents limits and permissions 
 
Having selected an appropriate agent use case, organisations can further bound the risks by defining 
appropriate limits and permission policies for each agent. 
 
Agent limits 
 
Organisations should consider defining limits on: 
 
• Agent's access to tools and systems: Define least-privilege policies that give agents only the 
minimum tools and data access needed for it to complete its task.18 For example, a coding assistant 
may not require access to a broad web search tool, especially if it already has curated access to 
the latest software documentation. Structuring agents around functional boundaries (e.g. 
separating IT helpdesk from HR self-service) can act as a natural constraint. 
 
• Agent's autonomy: For process-driven tasks, SOPs and protocols are frequently used to improve 
consistency and reduce unpredictability.19 Define similar SOPs for agentic workflows that an agent 
is constrained to follow, rather than giving the agent the freedom to define every step of the 
workflow. 
 
• Agent's area of impact: Design mechanisms and procedures to take agents offline and limit their 
potential scope of impact when they malfunction. This can include running agents in self-contained 
environments with limited network and data access, particularly when they are carrying out high -
risk tasks such as code execution.20 
 
In general, prefer deterministic rather than non-deterministic limits, and bound by design. For example, 
rather than relying on prompts to instruct the agent against accessing certain tools, impose access controls 
that prevent the tool from being called by the agent at all. This is elaborated in 2.3.1 Implement technical 
controls and processes . Where limits are non -deterministic or less reliable, layer on more monitoring 
measures or incorporate human-in-the-loop review to catch any failures. 
 
 
 
 
18 See PwC, The rise - and risks - of agentic AI. 
19 Grab introduced an LLM agent framework leveraging on Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to guide AI -
driven execution (see Introducing the SOP-driven LLM agent frameworks). 
20 See McKinsey, Deploying agentic AI with safety and security: A playbook for technology leaders . 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
20 
 
 
 
OCBC: Bounding agent autonomy in source of wealth analysis 
 
OCBC is the longest established Singapore bank and the second largest financial services group in 
Southeast Asia by assets, operating in 19 countries and regions. Bank of Singapore is a wholly owned 
private banking subsidiary of OCBC. 
 
Bank of Singapore Relationship Manager and compliance team synthesise customer-provided 
financial documents into a structured Source of Wealth memo. The bank developed an agentic AI 
system to support this work with the objectives of: 
 
• Improving consistency and completeness of the analysis 
• Reducing manual effort in document review and drafting 
 
The agentic AI system parses income-related documents (e.g. tax submissions, corporate annual 
reports, property documents, dividend statements) and generates a draft Source of Wealth memo 
based on internal guidelines and benchmarks. The system provides decision support only and does 
not make credit, onboarding or risk decisions autonomously - final validation and approval remain 
with designated human reviewers. 
 
 
 
The agentic workflow bounds risk through design by defining limits on the agents' autonomy: 
• Task-level autonomy only: Agents perform narrowly scoped tasks (extraction, drafting, 
checking), not end-to-end decisions 
• No self-initiation of actions: Agents operate only when triggered by predefined workflows 
• No decision authority: There is human review at critical decision points, including after the 
income and financial documents have been assessed to ensure accuracy. Ultimately, outputs 
are advisory and subject to human validation. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
21 
 
MSD: Bounding the risks of agentic AI through tiered autonomy and third-party 
ecosystem boundaries 
 
MSD aims to use the power of leading-edge science to save and improve lives around the world, bringing 
forward medicines, vaccines and innovative health solutions for the world's most challenging diseases. 
 
MSD develops and deploys agents in use cases such as streamlining the production of key trial 
protocols and minimizing labor -intensive tasks like clinical documentation and quality review. For its 
75,000 employees, MSD implemented an enterprise agentic AI governance strategy that bounds risk 
by, among other things, calibrating governance processes to level of agency, and derisking third -party 
platforms. 
 
Calibrating governance processes to level of agency 
 
MSD created multiple risk-calibrated governance pathways based on five levels of agency, accounting 
for factors such as action and permission scope, human oversight, data and context scope etc. 
 
 
• Lower levels move quickly through a lightweight governance pathway; middle levels move 
through an established AI impact assessment process, and higher levels require escalations to 
enterprise architecture review and testing where appropriate. 
• The highest levels of agency require technical measures beyond monitoring. A programmatic 
runtime policy enforcement layer is being implemented at the AI gateway before higher levels 
of autonomy are enabled. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
22 
 
Derisking third-party agent platforms 
 
Beyond agentic autonomy, enterprise AI invariably includes multiple third-party SaaS agentic platforms. 
While each third -party agent platform would have performed validation and testing within its own 
ecosystem, risks increase when these systems attempt to perform cross platform actions which may 
not have been exhaustively tested. This is particularly the case as interoperability frameworks are still 
nascent and maturing. 
 
To promote safety and security, MSD adopted a containment strategy - rather than allowing vendorembedded agents to act freely across MSD's data and systems, agentic features in SaaS tools are by 
default restricted to within their own ecosystems. This cont ains residual risk while preserving the 
productivity benefits of approved use cases. 
 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
23 
Agent identity 
 
Identity management and access control is one of the key means in which organisations enable 
traceability and accountability today for humans. As organisations deploy more agents, including agents 
which interact across organisation boundaries , identity management needs to be extended to agents to 
track individual agent behaviour and establish who holds accountability for each agent. 
 
This is an evolving space, and gaps exist today in terms of handling agent identity robustly. For example, 
current authorisation systems typically have pre-defined, static scopes. However, to operate safely in more 
complex scenarios, agents require fine-grained permissions that may change dynamically depending on the 
context, risk levels, and task objectives. Current authentication systems are also typically based on a single, 
unique individual. Such systems face difficulty in handling complex agent setups, such as when agents act 
for multiple human users with different permissions, or recursive delegation scenarios where agents spin 
up multiple sub-agents.21 
 
Solutions are being developed to address these issues, such as intra-organisation identity systems being 
extended to agents, 22 or integrating well-established standards like OAuth 2. 1 into MCP.23 The industry is 
also developing new standards and solutions for agents, such as decentralised identity management and 
dynamic access control.24 
 
In the interim, organisations should consider these best practices: 
 
• Identification: An agent's identity should be: 
 
o Unique: An agent should have its own unique , cryptographically verifiable identity, such 
that it can identify itself to the organisation, its human user, or other agents. 
o Accounted for : This identity should be tied to a supervising agent, a human user, or an 
organisational department for accountability and tracking. 
o Differentiated according to the capacity in which it acts: The different capacities in 
which an agent acts (e.g. independently or on behalf of a specified human user) should be 
recorded for auditability. 
o Catalogued and centrally managed: To prevent agent sprawl, all agent identities (and their 
attendant permissions) should be issued from and tracked by a centralised system. This 
enables an organisation to track its deployed agents, identify any anomalies, and remove 
identities that are no longer required. 
 
 
 
21 For a more comprehensive treatment of how current identity systems may face challenges when catering to 
agentic AI, see OpenID, Identity Management for Agentic AI. 
22 For examples, see Microsoft, What is Microsoft Entra Agent ID, and Alibaba Cloud, Agent ID Guard overview. 
23 See MCP, Authorisation support. 
24 See proposed framework for agentic identity by Cloud Security Alliance, Agentic AI Identity & Access 
Management: A New Approach. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Assess and bound the risks upfront 
 
24 
• Authorisation: An agent's authority should be: 
 
o Scoped, least -privilege, non-transferable: Authorisations should generally be scoped, 
time- or session -bound, non -transferable, and follow the principle of least privilege by 
default, with explicit escalation paths for elevated permissions. 
o Bounded by authorising human's permissions : An agent can have pre -defined 
permissions based on its role or the task, or its permissions may be dynamically set by its 
authorising human user, or a combination of both. As a rule of thumb, the human user 
should not be able to set permissions for the age nt greater than what the human user is 
himself authorised to do, such as accessing data outside the human's permissions . Such 
delegations of authority should be clearly recorded. 
 
 
 
Evaluating the residual risks 
 
Residual risk is the risk that remains after mitigation measures have been applied. It is important to note 
that there will always be a level of risk remaining, even after efforts are taken to identify appropriate 
agentic use cases and define limits on any agents, especially given how quickly agentic AI is evolving. 
Ultimately, organisations should evaluate and determine if the residual risk for their agentic deployment 
is of a tolerable level and can be accepted. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
25 
2.2 Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
The organisations that deploy agents and the humans who oversee them remain accountable for the agents' 
actions. But it can be challenging to fulfil this accountability when agent actions emerge dynamically and 
adaptively from interactions instead of fixed logic. Multiple stakeholders may also b e involved in different 
parts of the agent lifecycle, diffusing accountability. Finally, automation bias, or the tendency to over -trust 
an automated system, especially when it has performed reliably in the past, becomes a bigger concern as 
humans supervise increasingly capable agents. 
 
To address these challenges to human accountability, organisations should consider: 
 
• Clear allocation of responsibilities within and outside the organisation , by establishing chains 
of accountability across the agent value chain and lifecycle, while emphasising adaptive 
governance, so that the organisation is set up to quickly understand new developments and update 
their approach as the technology evolves. 
• Measures to enable meaningful human oversight of agents, such as requiring human approval at 
significant checkpoints, auditing the effectiveness of human approvals, and complementing these 
measures with automated monitoring. 
 
2.2.1 Clear allocation of responsibilities within and outside the organisation 
 
As deployers, organisations and humans remain accountable for the decisions and actions of agents. 
However, as with AI, the value chain for agentic AI involves multiple actors. Organisations should consider 
the allocation of responsibility both within their organisation, and vis -à-vis other organisations along the 
value chain. 
 
 
Simplified agentic AI value chain25 
 
Organisations may play multiple overlapping roles across this value chain. For example, an organisation 
that develops its own agents and subsequently deploys them would play both the role of the system 
provider and the deployer. 
 
 
25 For a more comprehensive list of potential stakeholders involved in the agentic AI ecosystem, see CSA and 
FAR.AI, Securing Agentic AI: A Discussion Paper. 
Model 
developers 
Platform 
providers 
 Deployer 
 End users 
Tooling providers 
e.g. MCP, APIs 
System providers 
/ app developers 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
26 
Within the organisation 
 
Within the organisation, organisations should allocate responsibilities for different teams across the 
agent lifecycle. While each organisation is structured differently, this is an illustration of how such 
responsibilities may be allocated across different teams: 
 
 
Key decision 
makers 
 
 
Product teams 
 
 
Cybersecurity 
teams 
 
 
Users 
 
Who: Leaders who define strategic decisions and high -level policies for the 
organisation e.g. board members, C -suite executives, managing directors, or 
department leaders. 
 
Key responsibilities can include: 
• Setting high-level goals for use of agents 
• Defining permitted operational use cases for agents, including limits on 
agent's data access 
• Setting the overall governance approach, including risk management 
frameworks and escalation processes 
Who: These roles oversee the translation of stakeholder needs or business goals 
into a technical agentic solution e.g. Product Managers, UI / UX Designers, AI 
Engineers, Software Engineers 
 
Key responsibilities can include: 
• Defining the design and requirements for agents, as well as any feature 
controls or phased rollouts 
• Reliable implementation of agents i.e. development, pre -deployment 
testing and post-deployment monitoring across the agent lifecycle 
• Educating users on responsible use of agentic product 
Who: These roles oversee the protection of agentic systems from cyber threats, by 
implementing and managing security measures, identifying vulnerabilities, and 
responding to incidents e.g. Chief Security Officer, Cyber Security Specialist, 
Penetration Tester 
 
Key responsibilities can include: 
• Defining baseline security guardrails and secure-by-design templates that 
technical teams should implement or adapt to the agentic system being 
deployed 
• Conducting regular red teaming and threat modelling 
Who: Any individual who utilises the output of the agents to contribute to an 
organisational goal e.g. company employees making decisions or automating 
workflows and practices. 
 
Key responsibilities can include: 
• Ethical and responsible usage of agents 
• Attending required training, complying with usage policies, timely reporting 
of bugs or issues with agents 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
27 
 
PwC Singapore: Allocating human accountability across different internal teams for 
agentic system for report drafting 
 
PwC is a network of professional services firms in 137 territories, across audit and assurance, tax and 
legal, deals and consulting. 
 
To accelerate internal productivity, PwC Singapore's AI Factory developed an agentic application that 
automates the drafting of research and analysis sections for internal reports, a process that has been 
traditionally manual and research-intensive. Users define the sections required, then the system draws 
from standardised templates maintained and updated (for regulatory and market developments) by 
PwC, retrieves and synthesises information from source materials, and generates draft content in 
seconds. 
 
The system uses three coordinated agents in a primarily sequential workflow, with feedback loops for 
additional retrieval or restructuring where needed: 
 
 
 
The responsibilities below describe how operating accountability for this report -drafting use case is 
allocated, within the context of PwC Singapore's broader AI governance framework: 
 
1. Use case owner - Use case appropriateness and accountable use: Confirming that the use case 
serves a legitimate business need, is appropriate for the intended purpose, and is aligned with the 
organisation's AI governance framework. The use case owner remains accountable for the 
responsible use of the application and for ensuring that appropriate human oversight is in place. 
 
2. Technology Risk Management Team - Risk assessment and control advice: Supports the 
assessment of technology, risk, security, and compliance considerations for the use case, including 
any regulatory requirements . This includes advising on appropriate controls relating to tools and 
models, access rights, and connected knowledge bases or data sources. 
 
3. AI Factory - Design, development, guardrails and monitoring: Designing, developing, and 
maintaining the application, including prompt design, model selection, tool configuration, 
integration with approved knowledge bases , and appropriate guardrails . AI Factory also monitors 
for model changes and manages updates through standard change management processes rather 
than leaving it to the end users. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
28 
 
 
 
 
Outside the organisation 
 
Organisations may also need to work with external parties when deploying agents e.g. model 
developers, agentic AI providers, or hosts of external MCP servers or tools. 
 
In these cases, organisations should similarly ensure that there are measures in place to fulfil its own 
accountability. Some agent-specific considerations are: 
 
• Clarify distribution of obligations in any terms and conditions or contracts between the 
organisation and the external party. In particular, organisations should consider provisions on 
security arrangements, performance guarantees, or data protection. Where there are gaps, the 
organisation should reassess if the agentic deployment meets its risk tolerance. 
 
• Address third-party opacity: Agents provided by external parties can be difficult to observe and 
control, making it challenging to understand what information they are grounded on, what they infer 
from conversations, or how data is stored and used . Organisations should take steps to maintain 
sufficient security and control, such as: 
o Require transparency and accountability from external parties e.g. through disclosures 
on agent capabilities and data handling practices 
o Request and evaluate technical security and control features e.g. strong authentication 
measures such as scoped API keys, per -agent identity tokens, and observability such as 
the logging of tool calls and access history. Where such features are lacking, organisations 
should consider alternative or in -house solutions, or scoping down the agentic use case, 
such as restricting access to sensitive data. 
 
End users 
 
Organisations may deploy agents to users within or outside their organisation. In doing so, organisations 
should ensure that users are provided sufficient information to hold the organisation accountable, as well 
as any information relating to the user's own responsibilities. More information can be found in Enabling 
end-user responsibility below. 
4. End users / subject matter specialists - Output review and approval: Reviewing AI -
generated content before it is used. Internal guidance makes clear that AI-generated content is 
a first draft intended to support, and not replace, professional judgement. Human reviewers 
refine and approve outputs before reliance or further us e, including checking accuracy, 
completeness, and alignment with established methodologies. 
 
 
Developing internal capabilities for adaptive governance 
 
All teams involved in agentic AI should also develop internal capabilities to understand the 
technology. Being aware of the improvements and limitations of agentic developments, such as 
new modalities like computer use agents, or new evaluation frameworks, allow organisations to 
quickly adapt their governance approach to new developments. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
29 
2.2.2 Design for meaningful human oversight 
 
 
Setting up a system for effective human supervision 
 
Organisations should define significant checkpoints or action boundaries that require human approval, 
especially before sensitive actions are executed. This can include:26 
 
• High-stakes actions and decisions e.g. editing of sensitive data, final decisions in high -risk 
domains (such as healthcare or legal), actions that may trigger liability 
• Irreversible actions e.g. permanently deleting data, sending communications, making payments 
• Outlier or atypical behaviour e.g. when agent accesses a system or database outside of its work 
scope, when agent selects a delivery route that is twice as long as the median distance. 
• User-defined e.g. agents may act on behalf of users who have different risk appetites. Beyond 
organisation-defined boundaries, users may be given the option to define their own boundaries e.g. 
requiring approval for purchases above a certain amount. 
 
Apart from considering when approvals are required, organisations should also consider what form 
approvals should take. These considerations include: 
 
• Keep approval requests contextual and digestible , while making the risk clear . When asking 
humans for approval, keep the request short and clear, instead of providing long logs or raw data 
that may be challenging to decipher. However, useful additional data, such as the associated risk 
with the action or a confidence score, should be included. 
 
• Consider the form of human input required. For straightforward actions such as accessing a 
database, the human user can simply approve or reject. For more complex cases, such as reviewing 
an agent's plan before execution, it may be more productive for the human to edit the plan before 
giving the ag ent the go -ahead. For high -risk actions, human users can be required to provide an 
additional written justification before approving or rejecting. 
 
Organisations should implement measures to ensure continued effectiveness of human oversight , 
particularly as humans remain susceptible to alert fatigue and automation bias and may be influenced by 
anthropomorphic design. These measures can include: 
 
 
26 For further examples of where human involvement may be considered, see Partnership on AI, Prioritising realtime failure detection in AI agents. 
Define significant 
checkpoints or action 
boundaries that require 
human approval
Train humans to evaluate 
these requests for approval 
effectively, and audit these 
approvals
Complement this with 
automated monitoring 
mechanisms and predefined 
alert thresholds

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
30 
• Regularly auditing the effectiveness of human oversight. Some ways to do so include: 
o Tracking measurable indicators 
▪ Human override rate i.e. the frequency at which humans reject or modify agent 
actions. A low rate may signal rubber-stamping behaviours. 
▪ Human response times during review of agent actions. A shorter time may signal 
automation bias or review fatigue. 
o Using data analytics to identify "outlier" humans, whose decision patterns deviate 
significantly from the norm. This may indicate compromised oversight. 
 
• Training human overseers to identify common failure modes or agent limitations e.g. 
inconsistent agent reasoning, agents referring to outdated policies . It should also be noted that 
chain-of-thought reasoning, which is sometimes used for explainability, is not analogous to human 
reasoning and may not be a faithful explanation of the agent's actions.27 
 
• Ensuring that humans possess the domain expertise to evaluate agent actions e.g. users using 
agents to "vibe code" may not have the software engineering expertise to review the robustness of 
generated code. 
 
Finally, human oversight should be complemented with automated real -time monitoring to escalate 
any unexpected or anomalous behaviour. This can be done by: 
• Implementing alerts for certain logged events (e.g. attempted unauthorised access or multiple 
failed attempts to call a tool) 
• Using data science techniques to identify anomalous agent trajectories 
• Using agents to monitor other agents 
• Denying action by default when approval infrastructures fail (e.g. when human supervisors are 
unreachable or agents attempt new actions that do not have any established approval policies in 
place). 
 
For more information, see Continuous testing and monitoring below. 
 
 
 
 
27 See Anthropic, Reasoning models don't always say what they think. 
Tencent: Enabling meaningful human oversight in coding assistants 
 
Tencent is a multinational technology company headquartered in China, responsible for gaming, 
messaging app WeChat and AI models such as Hy. 
 
CodeBuddy is an agentic AI coding system developed by Tencent Cloud and used by its engineers. It 
can autonomously plan, write, test and deploy code through natural language instructions, with access 
to filesystems, terminal commands, external APIs and MCP tools. 
 
CodeBuddy employs a mix of preset secure defaults and configurable permissions to allow for 
meaningful human oversight without overly fatiguing the user: 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
31 
 
Defining 
significant 
checkpoints for 
human 
intervention 
 
Higher-stakes or irreversible actions: Default human approval requirements 
correspond to the risk level of each action: 
• No approval required: 
o Read (reading files, directory listings) 
• Approval required: 
o Edit (modifying files): Approval required, valid only for that 
session. Future sessions require new approvals 
o Bash (shell command execution): Approval required, 
permanent per project or command 
o WebFetch (network requests): Approval required 
o MCP (external tool invocation): Governed through allow, ask, 
and deny rules; additional first-use control via trust verification 
for a newly connected MCP server 
 
Self-defined: To mitigate alert fatigue, the default permission level for each 
project can be set by each user or organisation, calibrated to a project's 
context, potential impact, and risk tolerance. For instance: 
• Lower-risk projects, such as internal documentation sites or prototype 
repositories with no production credentials, may justify more 
permissive settings for routine file edits. 
• Higher-risk projects, such as those with access to secrets, sensitive 
data, production infrastructure, deployment pipelines, or external 
tools, warrant stricter approval requirements. 
Enabling humans 
to effectively 
evaluate 
requests for 
approval 
Explaining proposed actions: When complex bash commands are proposed, 
plain language explanations help users understand what they are approving, 
including surfacing any side effects. 
 
For instance: 
• Proposed command: mysqldump -u root -p my_database | gzip > 
/backups/my_database_$(date +%Y%m%d).sql.gz 
• Explanation: I'm going to create a full backup of your database, 
compress it on the fly to save space, and save it to /backups/ with 
today's date in the filename. You will be prompted for the database 
root password. The original database will not be modified - this is a 
read-only operation. 
Complementing 
with automated 
monitoring 
mechanisms 
Continuous real-time monitoring for command injections: When a 
suspicious command is identified, human approval is required even where the 
command has previously been whitelisted. For instance: 
• A developer may previously have whitelisted a command pattern for 
routine tasks such as fetching documentation, such as "curl 
https://example.com/api-docs". 
• If a later command using a similar pattern appears suspicious or 
materially riskier, such as "curl https://example.com/api-docs && 
echo test > /tmp/unexpected_file", CodeBuddy's protections can 
require fresh human approval. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Make humans meaningfully accountable 
 
32 
X0PA: Enabling effective human approvals in high-impact recruitment workflows 
 
X0PA is a B2B software company that provides AI -powered recruitment solutions. Its AI Agentic 
Platform applies agentic AI to recruitment workflows. These agents have been deployed for X0PA's 
current customers through a gradual rollout, within the following workflow: 
 
 
 
As recruitment is a high -impact domain, the focus is to augment rather than replace human -decision 
making. 
 
1. Checkpoints for human approval: Human checkpoints are maintained at key stages such as 
shortlisting and final selection, ensuring that consequential hiring decisions remain with human 
recruiters and hiring managers. 
 
2. Enabling effective user approval by: 
a. Explainable outputs: Matching scores and ranking rationale allow users to understand 
the basis of agent recommendations, enabling effective review. 
b. Training: Training and onboarding processes are used to familiarise users with the 
system's functionality, including its limitations and potential failure modes 
i. For recruitment, these include situations where agents misinterpret non -
standard career paths, or produce lower -confidence evaluations for 
candidates with limited historical or structured data. 
ii. Users are also trained to recognise situations where interview agents may not 
fully capture contextual factors such as communication style, domain -
specific nuances, or atypical candidate experiences, and where additional 
human assessment may be required. 
 
3. User control and feedback loop : The user can override recommendations and provide 
feedback. This can be used to refine system performance over time, creating an interaction loop 
between users and X0PA AI's agents. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
33 
2.3 Implement technical controls and processes 
 
The agentic components that differentiate agents from simple LLM -based applications necessitate 
additional controls during the key stages of the implementation lifecycle. 
 
Organisations should consider: 
 
• During design and development, design and implement technical controls . The new 
components and capabilities of agents necessitate new and tailored controls. Depending on the 
agent design, implement controls such as access controls. Further, limit the agent's impact on the 
external environment by enforcing least-privilege access to tools and data. 
• Pre-deployment, test agents for safety and security. As with all software, testing before 
deployment ensures that the system behaves as expected. Specifically for agents, test for new 
dimensions such as overall task execution, policy adherence and tool use accuracy, and test 
across varied datasets to capture the full spectrum of agent behaviour. 
• When deploying, gradually roll out agents and continuously monitor them in production. The 
autonomous nature of agents and the changing environment makes it challenging to account for 
and test all possible outcomes before deployment. Roll out agents gradually, supported with realtime monitoring post-deployment to ensure that agents function safely. 
• Throughout the lifecycle, implement change management and version control processes. In 
complex agent ecosystems, changes to one agent can have cascading effects across 
interconnected workflows. As such, organisations should define clear triggers that initiate a change 
review process and categorise the needed changes accordingly. 
 
2.3.1 During design and development, use technical controls 
 
Organisations should design and implement technical controls in the agentic AI system to mitigate 
identified risks. For agents specifically, in addition to baseline software and LLM controls, consider adding 
controls for: 
 
• New agentic components, such as planning, reasoning and tools 
• Increased security concerns from the larger attack surface and new protocols 
• Multi-agent interactions 
 
When selecting suitable controls, consider the following: 
 
• Structural, rule-based vs model-based or prompt-layer controls: 
o Rather than prompt -layer safeguards, consider i mplementing deterministic safeguards 
that operate at a system-level through predefined logic, especially for higher-risk actions. 
▪ For example, rather than instructing an agent not to use specific tools, access 
controls can be implemented at the tool layer to prevent those tools from being 
called in the first place, or only allowing them to be called in a certain way (e.g. read 
access only). Similarly, if an agent needs to follow a set procedure, building that 
sequence into the workflow is more robust than prompting the agent to adhere to 
it through instructions alone. 
o Prompt-layer safeguards also tend to be inconsistently defined across users, as opposed 
to system-level safeguards that can be consistently defined and enforced. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
34 
o However, in certain cases where risks are harder to define through fixed rules , modelbased safeguards can be most effective e.g. to detect harmful content, which can manifest 
in different ways. 
 
• Runtime controls : As agents interact with users and systems in real time, static safeguards 
configured at design time may not be sufficient to catch every risk. Runtime controls address this 
by monitoring and intervening during execution, such as rate limits to prevent excessive tool use or 
input validation to catch harmful responses before they are acted upon. 
 
For illustration, these are some sample controls for agents. For a more comprehensive list, organisations 
can refer to CSA's Draft Addendum on Securing Agentic AI and GovTech's Agentic Risk and Capability 
Framework. 
 
Planning • Prompt agent to reflect on whether its plan adheres to user instructions 
• Prompt the agent to summarise its understanding and request clarification from the 
user before proceeding 
• Log the agent's plan and reasoning for the user to evaluate and verify 
Tools • Configure tools to require strict input formats 
• Apply the principle of least privilege to limit tools available to each agent, enforced 
through robust authentication and authorisation 
• For data-related tools: 
o Do not grant agent write access to tables in sensitive databases unless 
strictly required 
o Configure agent to let user take over control when keying in sensitive data 
(e.g. passwords, API keys) 
Protocols • Use standardised protocols where applicable (e.g. agentic commerce protocols 
when agent is handling a financial transaction) 
• For MCP servers: 
o Whitelist trusted servers and only allow agent to interact with servers on 
that whitelist 
o Sandbox any code execution 
Multi-agent 
interactions 
• Require agents to communicate through structured schemas such as typed 
function calls rather than free text, to reduce unintended instructions passing 
between agents 
• Limit shared memory access between agents 
 
 
 
MCP as a governance layer 
 
While usually considered as a connectivity protocol, MCP can potentially act as a governance 
layer as it sits between the agent and the enterprise systems it accesses. Organisations can 
consider defining controls on the MCP layer, such as filtering sensitive data that passes through 
the servers, logging all agent-to-system interactions, or whitelisting only trusted servers. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
35 
 
 
Terminal 3: Controls for accurate and secure agentic payments at the hardware level 
 
Terminal 3 is a Hong Kong-based data privacy infrastructure provider that provides secure and privacypreserving data processing without the need for data transfer. 
 
The company deploys a finance payroll agent to automate its monthly payroll cycle, which involves 
computing the gross and net salary, government -mandated contributions, validating expense claims 
and cross-referencing account details before disbursing the overall salary. 
 
The process is high stakes in nature as it involves handling sensitive personal data and executing 
financial transactions. To ensure that such actions are securely processed by the agent, Terminal 3 
implemented the following technical controls: 
 
1. Defining the scope of the agent's authority within its credentials: Before the monthly payroll 
cycle begins, the Human Resources director issues a Verifiable Credential of Intent to the agent 
- a mathematically binding, cycle-scoped authorization defining: 
a. which employee records the agent can access, 
b. the applicable government-mandated contribution rates, 
c. expense claim thresholds, eligible categories, and per-diem caps, and 
d. the ceiling amount for the consolidated bank transfer, set as base salary plus a buffer 
margin and explicitly declared before each run. 
 
2. Structurally separating sensitive data from the agent's context: All sensitive personal data 
(e.g. employee id numbers, salary figures, and bank account details) is held exclusively within 
Terminal 3's Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) and never transmitted to the agent at any 
point. The agent operates solely on non -sensitive inputs and receives only opaque employee 
reference identifiers and categorical flag reasons as outputs. This architectural separation 
means there is no sensitive data in the agent's context to be leaked or extracted through 
adversarial inputs - the risk is eliminated by design. 
 
3. Enforcing the boundaries of this authority through hardware: Every agent action is routed 
through the TEE and verified against the credentialed parameters at hardware speed. Out -ofscope actions (whether from erroneous reasoning or adversarial prompts) are blocked before 
execution and logged. All sensitive computat ion happens exclusively within this secure 
boundary. 
 
4. Recording a tamper -proof audit trail: Each step of the agent's execution, including any 
blocked actions, is recorded on the T3N Immutable Ledger, a hardware -attested, 
cryptographically verifiable log, to provide the evidence chain for any post -incident 
investigation. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
36 
 
Cyber Sierra: Technical controls to improve accuracy and reliability in filling up due 
diligence questionnaires 
 
Cyber Sierra is a Singapore-based company that is a Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) Agent 
Factory, building multi-agentic infrastructure for cyber operations, security compliance and audit 
tasks. 
 
It developed TracyAI, which is a solution to automate responses to security and compliance 
questionnaires. Such questionnaires usually contain hundreds of repetitive questions relating to data 
protection, access controls, certifications and risk management. It does so through an agentic system 
that searches and reasons over multiple steps through past due diligence questionnaires, information 
security policy documents and an evidence folder. TracyAI was deployed in the Governance, Risk and 
Compliance team of a large financial institution based in Hong Kong, reducing a task that typically took 
more than 100 manual hours to 15 minutes. 
 
To reduce the chances of inaccurate output and hallucination, the team implemented these technical 
controls: 
 
• Reflection architecture for agent to review its own outputs: The agentic system 
incorporated two types of reflection nodes, implemented using LangGraph, to provide 
feedback to the agent after it generated its output: 
o LLM Judge-based: An LLM judge critiqued the output based on whether it addressed 
the question, the justification aligned with retrieved evidence, and no unsupported or 
fabricated claims were introduced. 
o Metrics-based: Similarity scores and RAGAS metrics like faithfulness, context 
relevance, response relevance score. 
 
The agent would then review and refine its own output. If it failed to reach the passing 
threshold from both nodes within three iterations, its trajectory would be terminated. 
 
• Structured information to enhance agent understanding: In the initial stages of 
development, the team observed that the agent was susceptible to inaccurate output when it 
referred to: 
o Multiple versions of the same document, some of which had expired, in the 
knowledge base; and 
o A previous questionnaire which relied on documents that had since expired. 
 
To resolve this more deterministically, rather than intervening on the agent, the team 
structured the source information into a graph showing relationships between internal 
documents, policies, and certifications. This enabled the agent to understand how evidence 
connected across domains. This was then enriched with metadata to form a context graph 
that deterministically ensured that only the most relevant (based on location, topic, etc.) and 
current documents (based on version, expiry date etc.) were used. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
37 
 
Stability Solutions: Differing controls on internal-facing vs external-facing agents 
 
Stability Solutions is a company based in the US and Singapore that builds and provides blockchain -
powered infrastructure to record, preserve, and verify the integrity of data at scale. Their solutions 
include the Global Trust Network ("GTN", a high -throughput cryptoless public blockchain, currently 
used in supply chain and logistics), and Monolith, an application that records the provenance of creative 
works by allowing creators to digitally fingerprint any file, issue C2PA manifests and provenance 
metadata, and embed IP licenses and AI training permissions, recording all of this in a robust, verifiable, 
and machine-readable format on the GTN. 
 
Stability deploys their in-house agentic AI system, L3, which currently comprises 26 AI agents that run 
24/7 across almost all company functions, including product development, software engineering, and 
marketing. Its internal agents have action -taking cap abilities e.g. consolidating and archiving 
information across the entire company, sending daily morning briefs, monitoring and resolving network 
issues, acting as digital twins or personal assistants, and supporting engineering and development 
activities s uch as planning projects and writing code. L3 is optimised to have access to as much 
information as possible, enabling it to coordinate across teams (e.g. if the engineering team is planning 
an upgrade, L3 will inform them of planned marketing activities to avoid any disruptions). 
 
When Stability developed its first external-facing agent, Howard, to showcase L3's features and answer 
questions about L3 and the company, it recognised that the risk level was higher as the agent could be 
compromised by untrusted third parties. Compared to internal-facing agents, additional guardrails had 
to be implemented: 
 
1. Controls on data access: The agent has its own memory, which is formed from 
information received from L3. L3's agents, being aware of the agent's role and risks 
associated with it, curate a special dataset for the agent. 
 
2. Controls on interactions: The agent interacts through chats, either via Slack or a web 
interface. Stability's human employees vet third party inputs before they are sent to the 
agent. This enables them to filter out prompt attacks or invasive questions designed to 
extract sensitive information such as personal data and trade secrets. As the agent 
improves in safety and reliability, this control is expected to become unnecessary. 
 
3. Controls on agent configuration: Express guardrails and defined personality protocols 
were implemented to minimise the likelihood of the agent disclosing sensitive 
information, such as trade secrets, personal or confidential data. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
38 
2.3.2 Before deploying, test agents 
 
Organisations should test agents for safety and security before deployment. This provides confidence 
that the agents work as expected and controls are effective. Best practices on software and LLM testing are 
still relevant, such as unit and integration testing for software systems, as well as selecting representative 
datasets, and useful metrics and evaluators for LLM testing. Organisations can refer to previous guidance, 
such as the Starter Kit for Testing of LLM-based Applications for Safety and Reliability. 
 
However, organisations should adapt their testing approaches for agents. Some considerations include: 
 
• Testing for new risks: Beyond producing incorrect outputs, agents can take unsafe or unintended 
actions through tools. Organisations can consider testing for:28 
o Overall task execution: Whether agent can complete task accurately 
o Policy compliance : Whether an agent follows defined SOPs and routes for human 
approval when required 
o Tool calling: Whether an agent calls the right tools, with the right permissions, with the right 
inputs and in the right order 
o Robustness: As agents are expected to react and adapt to real -world situations, test for 
their response to errors and edge cases 
 
• Testing entire agent workflows: Agents can take multiple steps in sequence without human 
involvement. Thus, beyond testing an agent's final output, agents should be tested across their 
entire workflow, including reasoning and tool calling. 
 
• Testing agents individually and together: Beyond individual agents, testing should be carried out 
at the multi -agent system level, to understand any emergent risks and behaviours when agents 
collaborate, such as competitive behaviours or the impact on other agents when one agent has 
been compromised. 
 
• Testing in real or realistic environments: As agents may be expected to navigate real -world 
situations, testing should occur in a properly configured execution environment that mirrors 
production as closely as possible, such as using tool integrations, external APIs, and sandboxes 
that behave as th ey would in deployment. However, organisations should calibrate the need for 
realism against the risk of prematurely allowing agents to access tools that affect the real world. 
 
• Testing repeatedly and across varied datasets: Agent behaviour is inherently stochastic and 
context dependent. Testing should thus be done at scale and across varied datasets to observe any 
unexpected low -probability behaviours, especially if they are of high-impact. This requires 
generating test datasets that cover different conditions that agents may encounter . These tests 
should also be run multiple times to check for stability ( e.g. the same inputs and contexts render 
consistent outputs), including minor perturbations where needed. 
 
• Evaluating test results at scale: Reliably evaluating test results at scale is a known challenge for 
LLM testing. Agents add a further layer of complexity as their workflows can be long and contain 
unstructured information that cannot be easily processed by humans or automated scripts. 
 
28 For an example of new agentic aspects to test for, see Microsoft Foundry, Agent evaluators. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
39 
Organisations may consider using different evaluation methods for different parts of the agentic 
workflow (e.g. deterministic tests for structured tool calls vs LLM or human evaluation for 
unstructured agent reasoning). However, there is still a need to evaluate agents holistically, so that 
agent patterns across steps can be evaluated. Current industry solutions thus include defining 
LLMs or agents to evaluate other agents, while incorporating human-in-the-loop review.29 
 
 
 
29 For an example of agent evaluation solutions, see AWS Labs, Agent Evaluation. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
40 
 
Google x Singapore Government: Testing computer use agents 
 
To understand how autonomous agents behave in practice, Google, CSA, GovTech and IMDA initiated a 
sandbox to test computer-use agents for potential public sector use cases,1 namely: 
• Automated quality assurance (QA): Automated QA testing for government digital services 
• AI safety testing: Automating the safety testing of AI software like third-party chatbots 
• Social assistance applications : Assisting citizens in navigating and applying for social 
assistance programmes, helping to streamline complex processes 
 
While each use case had its own specific risk profile, the sandbox surfaced some general insights on 
agentic testing methodology, including: 
 
• Using realistic testing data and environments: In the AI safety testing use case: 
o Data: Safety testing prompts typically vary significantly in length, language, and format. 
A test dataset was curated based on real -world jailbreak prompts that reflected such 
variety. Testing revealed that the agent captured variation in format and language w ell, 
but its reliance on screenshots meant that it had difficulty reproducing longer 
responses accurately. 
o Environment: The agent was tested against real chatbots (though some within a staging 
environment for safety), which allowed review of its robustness in navigating different 
user interfaces, such as its ability to refresh a session or retry prompts when 
encountering user limits, longer loading times, or other errors. 
 
• Logging and evaluating agent's reasoning at each step of the workflow: This enabled more 
detailed evaluation of the test results to debug unexpected behaviour. For example, in the social 
assistance use case, the agent was tested on data minimisation i.e. whether it could distinguish 
between information relevant to an applicat ion and extraneous personal details it should not 
include. In a significant number of cases, the agent included these extraneous details. A review 
of its reasoning process showed that i t sometimes considered such information nevertheless 
relevant, or presumed that it needed to include all information given to it. This could then enable 
more specific prompt-layer safeguards. 
 
Identifying attack vectors based on the use case: Through malicious third -party prompts 
embedded in external websites, the agent could be redirected towards harmful actions (also 
known as indirect prompt injection). While this is a general risk, it can manifest differently in 
each use case. For example, for AI safety testing, it was necessary for the agent to interact with 
third-party chatbots. Attackers could thus create a malicious chatbot that included harmful 
instructions in its responses. This threat scenario was specifically tested. It was observed that 
in some instances, the agent navigated to arbitrary URLs after being instructed to do so. This 
could be mitigated through controls such as but not limited to website whitelists or prompt 
design. 
 
• Incorporating human-in-the-loop during testing: Computer-use agents tend to have broader 
action-space and autonomy because of their flexibility in navigating different user interfaces. As 
they are still nascent, incorporating human oversight and review during the testing process can 
surface any unexpected or emergent behaviours. 
 
For more information on the use cases deployed and risks tested, see the full paper here. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
41 
 
City Developments Limited x Knovel Engineering: Testing data access boundaries in 
agentic systems 
 
City Developments Limited (CDL) is a Singapore -based developer and asset owner/operator, with a 
portfolio spanning residential, commercial, hospitality, and integrated developments. Knovel 
Engineering is a Singapore -based AI consultancy that helps enterpri ses and government agencies 
operationalize trusted AI. 
 
As part of the Global AI Assurance Sandbox, Knovel tested CDL's internal agentic system, which 
answers queries by retrieving business insights, accessing internal knowledge, and performing 
task‑oriented workflows. Agent orchestration handles multi ‑step tasks such as summarising sector 
performance or retrieving specific operational metrics. 
 
 
 
CDL identified data leakage as a key risk of its system and prioritised it for testing. The aim was to 
determine if data access controls and boundaries were properly enforced across users i.e. a user would 
only be able to obtain information that s/he had access rights to. 
 
To test this, Knovel adopted the following methodology: 
• Used a matrix of 7 user accounts x 4 domains (Property, Financial, Commercial Hospitality) to 
validate adherence to boundaries 
• Logged into user accounts with restricted domain access and conducted multi -turn 
conversations that progressively introduced indirect queries targeting out of scope domains 
(e.g., a Property-domain user asking about Hotel A's Q4 revenue) 
• Compared outputs from restricted accounts with those from legitimately authorised ones to 
detect info leakage 
• Additionally, the system's tendency to be helpful was exploited by providing partially correct 
system prompts and tool call structures, observing whether the system inadvertently corrected 
or completed redacted information. 
 
For more details on this case study, including insights from the testing and other risks that were tested, 
see here. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
42 
2.3.3 When deploying, continuously monitor and test 
 
Pre-deployment testing establishes a useful baseline but needs to be complemented by continuous 
monitoring and testing during deployment. Agents adapt to real-time conditions and their behaviour may 
change. For multi-agent systems especially, failure modes such as miscoordination or emergent behaviours 
may only manifest through agent behaviour over time and under realistic conditions. This section provides 
recommendations to mitigate such risks, including: 
• Gradual deployment of agents 
• Continuous testing and monitoring 
• Robust change management 
 
Gradual deployment of agents 
 
Organisations should consider gradually rolling out agents into production to control the amount of 
risk exposure. Such rollouts can be controlled based on: 
 
• Users of agents e.g. rolling out to trained or experienced users first 
• Tools and protocols available to agent e.g. restricting agents to more secure, whitelisted MCP 
servers first 
• Systems exposed to agent e.g. using agents in lower-risk internal systems first 
 
 
GovTech: Phased rollouts of coding assistants to incrementally monitor risks while 
preparing controls for new features 
 
The Government Technology Agency of Singapore, or GovTech, is a statutory board in Singapore that 
develops digital government services and drives public sector transformation. 
 
In Oct 2025, GovTech rolled out two agentic coding assistants within the organisation, namely Windsurf 
and GitHub Copilot (Agent Mode), before rolling out Claude Code in Apr 2026. After extensive tests on 
common vectors for failures and threats (such as agentic AI manipulation, hallucination, and compromise 
of MCP servers) and implementation of corresponding technical controls, GovTech adopted a phased 
approach for rolling out these agentic capabilities. This enabled it to empower development teams with 
enhanced productivity early, while monitoring risks and incrementally developing further controls for new 
AI features as the technology evolves. 
 
In the first phase, the rollout was limited to contain the blast radius of any potential risks: 
• Internal employees: Agentic coding assistants were only rolled out to GovTech employees, a 
smaller group of developers within a single organisation that could be trained, educated on the 
using agents responsibly versus the whole of government. 
• No MCP allowed: Users were only allowed to use the built-in capabilities of the agent e.g. multistep reasoning to plan and execute tasks within the developer's environment without access to 
MCP servers. 
• Low-risk systems: Systems that were not critical infrastructure and had lower levels of data 
access. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
43 
 
Continuous 
test
 ing 
and monitor
 ing 
 
Organisations should continuously monitor and log agent behaviour post-deployment, and establish 
reporting and failsafe mechanisms for agent failures or unexpected behaviours . This allows the 
organisation to: 
 
• Intervene in real-time: When potential failures are detected, stop agent workflow and escalate to 
a human supervisor e.g. if agent attempts unauthorised access. 
• Debug when incidents happen: Logging and tracing each step of an agent workflow and agent-toagent interactions help to identify points of failure. 
• Audit at regular intervals: This ensures that the system is performing as expected. 
 
Monitoring and observability are not new concepts, but agents introduce some challenges. As agents 
execute multiple actions at machine speed, organisations face the issue of extracting meaningful insights 
from the voluminous logs generated by monitoring systems. This becomes more difficult when high-risk 
anomalies are expected to be detected in real-time and surfaced as early as possible. 
 
 
While the first phase was ongoing, GovTech started to put in place the necessary controls and 
infrastructure to support broader agent capabilities in the second phase, such as central logging and 
monitoring, and trialing its 1st iteration of MCP Governance Framework - a path for developers to connect 
to whitelisted MCP servers from a containerized sandbox. Red teaming was conducted to validate the 
effectiveness of these guardrails against external threats. 
 
In the second phase, which is currently beginning, the rollout will be expanded progressively to include 
public officer developers in other government agencies, then non-government vendors and contractors . 
The revised MCP Governance Framework will also be made accessible to developers in GovTech first and 
gradually to the rest of the government, starting with Figma and subsequently to other managed MCPs like 
GitLab based on user demand and risk factors 
 
The learnings from the first phase informed the rollout in the second phase - such as: 
• Resolution of teething issues e.g. network trust configuration issues. 
• Reducing cognitive load of human approvers by allowing users to opt for OS-native sandboxes 
which allow agents to run some commands more flexibly without constant seeking of human 
approval. 
• Reducing adoption friction of the MCP Governance Framework by removing the need for 
complex local development containers and self-hosted infrastructure and changed the 
architecture to leverage the AI coding tools' native sandboxes together with Cloudflare's 
managed MCP gateway, where available 
 
As agentic AI evolve s rapidly, GovTech continues to experiment, test and monitor AI's impact to uncover 
gaps and new learnings. A balanced approach towards risk mitigation versus developer experience is key 
for successful agentic AI adoption and developer productivity. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
44 
Key considerations when setting up a monitoring system include: 
 
• What to log: Organisations should determine their objectives for monitoring (e.g. real -time 
intervention, debugging , integration between components ) to identify what to log. In doing so, 
prioritise monitoring for high -risk activities such as updating database records or financial 
transactions. 
 
• How to effectively monitor logs: Organisations can consider implementing these practices: 
 
o Monitor on multiple layers, such as the user-agent interaction, agent-tool invocation, and 
model reasoning layers to identify specific sources of failure. 
 
o Define alert thresholds: 
▪ Programmatic, threshold-based: Define alerts when agents trigger thresholds e.g. 
agent attempts unauthorised access or makes too many repeated tool calls within 
a specified timeframe. 
▪ Outlier / anomaly detection: Use data science or deep learning techniques to 
process agent signals and identify anomalous behaviour that may indicate 
malfunctions. 
▪ Agents monitoring other agents : Design agents to monitor other agents in real -
time, flagging any anomalies or inconsistencies. 
 
o Define specific interventions: For each alert type, consider what the level of intervention 
should be. Some degree of human review should be incorporated, proportionate to the risk 
level. For example, lower -priority alerts can be flagged for review at a scheduled time, 
whereas higher-priority ones might require temporarily halting agent execution until a 
human reviewer can assess. In the event of catastrophic agentic malfunction or 
compromise, commensurate measures such as termination and fallback solutions should 
be considered. 
 
o Human-in-the-loop: Some degree of human review or human -in-the-loop is useful to 
detect any emergent behaviours that may not have been previously accounted for. 
 
o Integrate with observability platforms: Consider integrating agent monitoring with 
existing observability and debugging platforms, including standards like OpenTelemetry for 
tracing, to enable detailed analysis of tool calls, traces, and system interactions across the 
agent workflow. 
 
o Ensure log immutability: Maintain complete audit trails by ensuring that problematic agent 
trajectories and failures cannot be deleted, preserving them for analysis and compliance 
purposes. 
 
o Establish feedback loops: Establish feedback loops to feed monitoring insights back into 
training datasets and evaluation frameworks for continuous improvement. 
 
Finally, continuously test the agentic system even post-deployment to ensure that it works as expected 
and is not affected by model drift or other changes in the environment. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Implement technical controls and processes 
 
45 
Robust change management 
 
As an agentic system becomes more complex, small modifications can cascade into larger impact. To 
safeguard against this, consider: 
 
• Defining triggers for a change review process. This can include technical triggers (model updates, 
tool modifications), environmental triggers (domain shifts, business context changes), 
performance triggers (anomalous behaviour, degraded performance), and regulatory triggers 
(changes in compliance requirements). 
 
• Categorising review changes by risk. Minor changes such as prompt refinements may follow 
lighter review processes, while material changes such as model updates or autonomy adjustments 
may require a full governance review, and critical changes affecting high -stakes decisions may 
mandate an immediate re-risk assessment. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Enable end
 -
 user responsibility 
 
46 
2.4 Enable end-user responsibility 
 
Ultimately, end users are the ones who use and rely on agents, and human accountability also extends 
to these users. Organisations should provide sufficient information to end users to promote trust and 
enable responsible use. 
 
Organisations should consider: 
 
• Transparency: Users should be informed of the agents' capabilities (e.g. scope of agent's access 
to user's data, actions the agent can take) and the contact points whom users can escalate to if the 
agent malfunctions. 
• Education: Users should be educated on proper use and oversight of agents (e.g. training should be 
provided on an agent's range of actions, common failure modes like hallucinations, usage policies 
for data), as well as the potential loss of trade craft i.e. as agents take over more functions, basic 
operational knowledge could be eroded. Hence sufficient training (especially in areas where agents 
are prevalent) should be provided to ensure that humans retain core skills. 
 
2.4.1 Different users, different needs 
 
Organisations should cater to different users with different information needs, to enable such users 
to use AI responsibly. Broadly, there are two main archetypes of end -users - those who interact with 
agents, and those who integrate agents into their work processes or oversee them. 
 
 
 
2.4.2 Users who interact with agents 
 
Such users usually interact with agents that act on behalf of the organisation e.g. customer service or 
sales agents. These agents tend to be external facing , although they can also be deployed within the 
organisation e.g. a human resource agent that interacts with other users in the organisation. 
 
For these users, focus on transparency. Organisations should share pertinent information to foster trust 
and facilitate proper usage of agents. Such information can include: 
Users who interact with agents 
e.g. customer service, HR agents 
 - 
mostly external
 -
 facing 
Users who integrate agents into their 
work processes 
e.g. coding assistants, enterprise 
workflows 
 - 
mostly internal
 -
 facing 
Focus on transparency 
 Layer 
on education and training 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Enable end
 -
 user responsibility 
 
47 
 
• User's responsibilities : Clearly define the user's responsibilities, such as asking the user to 
double-check all information provided by the agent. Where appropriate, allow users to set their own 
approval thresholds and boundaries for agent actions based on their individual risk tolerance, 
beyond organisation-defined limits. 
• Interaction: Declare upfront in the user interface that the users are interacting with agents at the 
point of interaction, rather than writing it only in separate documentation. 
• Agents' range of actions and decisions: Inform the user s on the range of actions and decisions 
that the agent is authorised to perform and make. 
• Data: Be clear on how user data is collected, stored, and used by the agents, in accordance with 
the organi sation's data privacy policies. Where necessary, obtain explicit consent from users 
before collecting or using their data for the agents. 
• Human accountability and escalation : Provide users with the respective human contact point s 
who are responsible for the agents, whom the users can alert if the agents malfunction or if they are 
dissatisfied with a decision. 
 
2.4.3 Users who integrate agents into their work processes 
 
Such users typically utilise agents as part of their internal workflows e.g. coding assistants, automation 
of enterprise processes. The agent acts for and on behalf of the user. 
 
For these users, in addition to the information above, layer on education and training so that users can 
use the agents responsibly. Key aspects include education and training on: 
 
• Foundational knowledge on agents 
o Relevant use cases , so that the user s understand how to best integrate the agents into 
their day-to-day work, and the scenarios under which the use of agents should be restricted 
(e.g. do not use an agent for confidential data) 
o Instructing the agents e.g. general best practices in prompting 
o Agents' range of actions, so the user is aware of their capabilities and potential impact 
 
• Effective oversight of agents 
o Common agent failure modes, such as hallucinations, getting stuck in loops after errors, 
so that the user can identify and flag out issues. 
o Ongoing support, such as refreshers to update on latest features and common mistakes 
o Feedback loops e.g. when users override agent actions or identify wrong actions, enable 
them to report this such that it can be used to improve the agent processes if needed. 
 
• Potential impact on tradecraft and business continuity 
o As agents take over entry -level tasks, which typically serve as training for new staff, this 
could lead to skill degradation, in which users lose basic operational knowledge.30 
o This can create business continuity risks in which users may no longer know how to 
perform critical processes manually when agents malfunction or become unavailable. 
o Organisations should identify core capabilities of each job and provide sufficient training 
and work exposure so that users retain foundational skills. 
 
30 For an example of such a study, see The Quarterly Journal of Economics, Generative AI at Work. 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Enable end
 -
 user responsibility 
 
48 
 
 
 
Workday: Transparency towards end-users interacting with finance and HR agents 
 
Workday is a global enterprise AI platform for managing people, money and AI agents, and is used by 
more than 11,500 organisations around the world and across industries, including more than 65% of 
the Fortune 500. 
 
To streamline its internal financial and human resources operations, Workday has implemented a suite 
of proprietary AI agents. Specifically, the use cases for HR agents include: 
• Recruiter Agent which supports screening and evaluation of candidates for job roles. 
• Conversational Scheduling Agent which manages the full interview, orientation, and event 
session scheduling lifecycle. 
 
Workday has implemented several design elements, in line with its commitment to mitigate potential 
risks to downstream users of deployed AI tools. This includes ensuring that AI agents ae transparent 
with end-users and adhere to Workday's Responsible AI st andards, enabling users to make informed 
and responsible use of the AI agent(s): 
 
• Identity and range of actions: 
o The user interface of the AI agent clearly provides notice to users that the tool is 
powered by AI and is intended to support a select range of actions whenever a user 
interacts with an AI agent e.g. in Slack or Microsoft Teams. 
o The factsheets provided to users also specify: 
▪ What an agent can do (such as reviewing candidates against job requirements, 
summarising talent profiles, sending reminders to interviewers and 
interviewees, collecting post-interview feedback) 
▪ What it cannot do (such as making decisions related to hiring promotion or 
succession, initiating changes to worker records), reinforcing that users and 
HR remain in control. 
 
• Reasoning: When agents provide recommendations in sensitive workflows -for example, 
when the Recruiter Agent supports the screening of candidates for a role or suggest 
development actions for a worker -they accompany each recommendation with an 
explanation of their reasoning, including the data considered, key factors that influenced the 
recommendation, and any noted uncertainties or risks. 
 
By making the agent's reasoning visible, users are equipped with relevant essential information needed 
to review and use the results in a responsible manner. These transparency measures are designed to 
support users in understanding how they should engage with the agent. In addition, they are designed 
to highlight where human judgment is required in order to ensure human decision making and to prevent 
the automation of higher risk decisions. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Enable end
 -
 user responsibility 
 
49 
Ant International: Equipping end users to robustly design their own agentic workflows 
 
With main operations across Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Latin America, Ant International is a 
leading global digital payment, digitisation and financial technology provider. Through collaboration 
across the private and public sectors, her unified tec hfin platform supports financial institutions and 
merchants of all sizes to achieve inclusive growth through a comprehensive range of cutting-edge digital 
payment and financial services solutions. 
 
Internally, Ant International deploys AI agents , leveraging on third-party LLMs, for use cases such as 
data quality assurance and cybersecurity. To ensure that humans can maintain control over agentic 
workflows, the company has been trialling a new framework for the design and development of agentic 
AI, the High-Order Program or HOP framework. The HOP framework is embedded into an agent builder 
and provides a process by which users can describe their agentic goals in plain language and confirm 
the agentic workflow before it is converted into code by the agent builder. 
 
1. End-users can read and write agentic workflow specs themselves: HopSpec, a 
specification document that lays out step by step what the agent should do and the constraints 
(i.e. SOP), is written in easily understandable text (Markdown). Requirements for specific 
agentic workflows can be drafted and reviewed by end -users, including domain experts, 
compliance officers, and product managers. 
 
2. End-users can iterate with the agent builder on what good agentic workflows look like : 
When a task is less mature or does not have a well-defined SOP, it may be difficult to define the 
specifications. HOP iterates with the user on how a task may be completed, exploring potential 
solution paths and providing confidence scores for its proposed workflows for the user to 
evaluate. 
 
3. Agentic workflows come with built-in verification: To safeguard against cascading errors, all 
agentic workflows come with both customisable and built -in verification steps, such as 
reconstructing the original task from the output, cross -checking the response with separate 
calls to other LLMs, and whether t he response fits the expected format. If any of the 
verifications fail, the user will be notified of the agent's retries, and the agentic workflow will 
end after a specific number of failed tries. 
 
For example, when developing an agentic workflow for detecting reverse shell attacks, where victim's 
machine bypasses its defence and connects out to the attacker through a malicious code, the user may 
not have any well-defined SOP as the malicious code could be residing in various forms and resemble 
a normal outbound connection. 
 
In this situation, the user can start with a query such as "Are there any suspicious outgoing connections 
that look like a reverse shell attack?". The agent builder can then craft a SOP that systematically 
examines attributes such as file names, file paths , and destination IPs to evaluate this. After iterating 
with the user and upon the user's confirmation, the workflow will be automatically translated into code 
that can be repeatedly executed and verified. 
 
 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Annexes 
 
50 
Annex A: Further resources 
 
1. Introduction to Agentic AI 
 
What is 
Agentic AI? 
• AWS, Agentic AI Security Scoping Matrix: A framework for securing 
autonomous AI systems 
• WEF, AI Agents in Action: Foundations for Evaluation and Governance 
• Anthropic, The 2026 State of AI Agents Report and 2026 Agentic Coding Trends 
Report 
• OpenAI, A Practical Guide to Building Agents 
• IBM, The 2026 Guide to AI Agents 
Risks of 
Agentic AI 
 
• GovTech, Agentic Risk & Capability Framework 
• CSA, Draft Addendum on Securing Agentic AI 
• OWASP, Multi-Agentic System Threat Modelling Guide 
• OWASP, Top 10 for Agentic Applications for 2026 
• IBM, AI agents: Opportunities, risks, and mitigations 
• Partnership on AI, Six AI Governance Priorities for 2026 
• Palo Alto Networks, A Complete Guide to Agentic AI Governance 
• Infosys, Agentic AI risks to the enterprise, and its mitigations 
 
2. MGF for Agentic AI 
 
Assess and 
bound the 
risks upfront 
Agentic governance in general 
• EY, Building a risk framework for Agentic AI 
• McKinsey, Deploying agentic AI with safety and security: A playbook for 
technology leaders 
• Bain, Building the Foundation for Agentic AI 
• OWASP, State of Agentic AI Security and Governance 1.0 
• AWS, AI agents in enterprises: Best practices with Amazon Bedrock AgentCore 
 
Risk assessment and threat modelling 
• OWASP, Agentic AI - Threats & Mitigations 
• OWASP, Multi-Agentic System Threat Modelling Guide 
• Cloud Security Alliance, Agentic AI: Understanding Its Evolution, Risks, and 
Security Challenges 
• Cloud Security Alliance, The AI Agent Governance Gap: What CISOs Need Now 
• Google Cloud, AI risk and resilience 
 
Agent limits and agent identity 
• Meta, Agents Rule of Two: A Practical Approach to AI Agent Security 
• OpenID, Identity Management for Agentic AI 
• Cloud Security Alliance, The Agentic Trust Framework: Zero Trust Governance 
for AI Agents 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Annexes 
 
51 
• Google Cloud Office of the CISO, These 4 AI governance tips help counter 
shadow agents 
Make humans 
meaningfully 
accountable 
 
Allocating responsibility within and outside an organisation 
• Carnegie Mellon University, The 'Who', 'What', and 'How' of Responsible AI 
Governance 
• IBM, AI agent governance: Big challenges, big opportunities 
• CSA and FAR.AI, Securing Agentic AI: A Discussion Paper 
• McKinsey, Accountability by design in the agentic organization 
• McKinsey, State of AI trust in 2026: Shifting to the agentic era 
 
Designing for meaningful human oversight 
• Partnership on AI, Prioritizing real-time failure detection in AI agents 
• Permit.IO, Human-in-the-Loop for AI Agents: Best Practices, Frameworks, Use 
Cases, and Demo 
Implement 
technical 
controls and 
processes 
Technical controls 
• GovTech, Agentic Risk & Capability Framework 
• CSA, Draft Addendum on Securing Agentic AI 
• OpenAI, Building Governed AI Agents - A Practical Guide to Agentic Scaffolding 
• Google, Google's Approach for Secure AI Agents: An Introduction 
• Microsoft, Introducing the Agent Governance Toolkit: Open -source runtime 
security for AI agents 
• Microsoft, Governance and security for AI agents across the organization 
• Google Cloud, Disconnected but resilient: Securing agentic AI at the extreme 
edge 
• Google, Our 2026 Responsible AI Progress Report 
 
Testing and evaluation 
• 
 Microsoft
 , 
Microsoft Agent Evaluators 
• 
 Anthropic, 
 Demystifying evals for AI agents 
• 
 LangChain, 
 State of Agent Engineering 
• 
 AWS, 
Evaluating AI agents: Real
 -
 world lessons from building agentic 
systems at Amazon 
• 
 IBM
 , 
What is AI Agent Evaluation? 
 
Monitoring and observability 
• 
 Microsoft
 , 
Top 5 agent observability best practices for reliable AI 
Enabling enduser 
responsibility 
• Deloitte, State of AI in the Enterprise: The untapped edge 
• Zendesk, What is AI transparency? A comprehensive guide 
• Harvard Business Review, The Perils of Using AI to Replace Entry-Level Jobs 
 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Annexes 
 
52 
Annex B: Call for feedback and case studies 
 
Call for feedback: This is a living document, and we invit e suggestions on how the framework can be 
updated or refined. The following questions can be used as a guide: 
• Introduction to Agentic AI : Are the descriptions of agentic AI systems accurate and sufficiently 
comprehensive for readers to obtain a clear overview of the governance challenges of agentic AI ? 
Are there other risks that should be included? 
• Proposed Model Governance Framework: Are the four dimensions of the framework practical and 
applicable? Are there any other dimensions that should be included? For each dimension, are there 
specific governance and technical challenges and best practices that should be included? 
 
Call for case studies: We also invite organisations to continue submitting their own agentic governance 
experiences as case studies on how specific aspects of the framework can be implemented, to serve as 
practical examples of responsible deploymen t that other organisations can refer to . Case studies should 
ideally involve an organisation's deployment of an agentic use case that demonstrates one of the 
dimensions of the framework. 
 
Please note that a ny feedback and case studies may be incorporated into an updated version of the 
framework, and contributors will be acknowledged accordingly. Please submit your feedback and case 
studies at this link: https://go.gov.sg/mgfagentic-feedback. 
 

Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI 
 | 
Acknowledgements 
 
53 
Acknowledgements 
 
We extend our sincere gratitude to the organisations and individuals that supported the development of 
this document by sharing their feedback and real-world experiences. 
 
Industry 
 
 Advai Limited 
 Aethryx 
 AIDX Tech 
 Aires A.T Private Limited 
 Airwallex 
 Alibaba Cloud 
 Ant International 
 Artha Solutions Pte Ltd 
 Amazon Web Services 
 Baker Tilly Malaysia 
 CDL 
 Cleanverse International Pte 
Ltd 
 Cyber & Artificial Intelligence 
for Future Impact 
 Cyber Sierra (Fort One 
Technologies Pte. Ltd.) 
 Dayos Pte. Ltd. 
 DBS 
 Dynamo AI 
 Ernst & Young 
 Ethics Advisory Services 
 Ferz.AI 
 Finiteloop 
 Flux AI 
 Gradient Institute 
 Google 
 Grab 
 HM Strategy 
 IBM 
 Imagenz Pte Ltd 
 Interpol Singapore 
 KASIKORN BusinessTechnology Group (KBTG) 
 Knovel 
 Levy Lens 
 Mastercard 
 Microsoft 
 MSD 
 NCS 
 Nobulex 
 OCBC 
 OpenSymbolicAI 
 Protos Labs 
 PwC 
 Resaro 
 Safer Agentic AI Working 
Group 
 Salesforce 
 Singapore Computer Society 
 Security Awareness 
Consultants SL 
 Singapore Fintech 
Association 
 Sovaign 
 SP Group Pte Ltd 
 Stability Solutions 
 TomorrowX 
 Vaara 
 Verixiom Pte. Ltd. 
 Workato 
 Workday 
 X0PA 
 ZLAR 
 Tech Mahindra 
 Temus 
 Tencent 
 Terminal 3 
 The Box Commons 
 
Government agencies 
 
 Competition and Consumer Commission of 
Singapore (CCS) 
 Cyber Security Agency of Singapore (CSA) 
 Government Technology Agency of Singapore 
(GovTech) 
 Home Team Science and Technology Agency 
(HTX) 
 Intellectual Property Office of Singapore (IPOS) 
 Ministry of Education (MOE) 
 Ministry of Digital Development and 
Information (MDDI) 
 Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS)